> 2020.7.6 The Economist 0627
## The next catastrophe
- GOVERNMENTS routinely ignore seemingly far-out risks. Rocked by a global pandemic, they need to up their game.
  Low-probability, high-impact events are a fact of life. So when they were coming, individual humans would look for protection from them to governments and insurers. However, **humanity reveals instead a preference to ignore them until forced to react**, especailly our governments.
- Some catastrophes: pandemic, coronal mass ejection(CME), large volcanic eruption, nuclear war
- Amdittedly, none of these catastrophes can be controlled. But early-warning systems are possible. **Scanning the future for risks and taking a proper note of what you see are a mark of *prudent* maturity**. It is also a *salutary* expansion of the imagination.

## Watch this space
- INVESTORS have loaded up on commercial property. Now they face a reckoning.
  You may not realise it, but a growing share of your savings and pensions *pot* has been *wagered* on the commercial buildings in which you work, shop and sleep. The original ideas was that these investments would provide **a steady stream of earnings for decades into future**, rather as goverment bonds before interest rates fell so low.
  > The commercial property has successfully given investors annual returns of over 7%.
-  The immediate problem is that tenants are behind on the rent. Another problem is the uses of property may change in the long run.
  E-commerce activity would speed up the decline of bricks-and-mortar shops and would boost demand for *warehouses*.

## Citius, Altius, Fortnite
- Why the next Olympic games should *feature* Fortnite. 
  Electronic sports such as "Fortnite" described above, are vastly more popular than Olympic oddities. In fact, they are more popular than most mainstream sports.
  > Only 28% of British boys aged 16-19 watch any traditional live sports; 57% play video games.
- *Stick-in-the-muds* may grumble that e-sports are not proper sports.
- New sports have always been unpopular at first. 
  > King Edward II of England tried to ban football in 1314.
- Critics of e-sports offer moral objections, too. Addictive, Violent, Crassly commercial. However, none of these arguments is very convincing.

## P32. Chaguan| Examining the costs of corruption
- Corruption is bad, but in the past it emboldened some Chinese officials to take useful risks.
  Chinese corruption manages to be both rampant and co-existent with 40 years of rapid economic expansion.
- Chaguan unbundles *graft* into four varieties. There is petty theft. Then there is grand theft. Third is speed money. Then comes the varity that most worries Mr Xi: access money.
  For example, when a shopkeeper pays a bribe for a permit that might otherwise never arrive, high-level bribes and favours are offered to powerful officials and their families to contracts or other privileges.
- Historically, lots of bribes were paid by on official to another to secure a promotion. Other abuses of power involved no cash at all: helping a relative jump the queue for housing or a rationed car licence plate, for instance.
  Indeed the public is arguably more angered by social inequalities that by *embezzled* money.
- On effect of the purge has both economic and political consequences.
  Officials at all levels of government are more risk-averse and reluctant to innovate. Importantly, **corruption's true root cause is the state's enormous power over the economy**.

## P51. The new admen
- A notoriously recession-prone and inefficient business is getting up to snuff.
  How come? In a word: internet.
- Everyone is at the mercy of a near-duopoly.
  > Two landlords, Google and Facebook, control 60% of worldwide digital-ad real estate. 
- There is one final-and vital reason for the resilience of digital-ad spending. It is closely aligned with how people while away their time.
- When "a point of saturation" reach, ads will then seep to other digital media.
  One is gaming. Video-streaming, if anything, looks ready for an even bigger bonanza. Then there is Amazon. 

## P61. Buttonwood| A long shadow
- Investing would be very different if the dotcom boom and bust had never happened.
  "**Many shall be restored that now are fallen and many shall fall that are now in honour**."
- True value is a low price relative to some financial measure of intrinsic worth-recent profits, say, or the book value of assets.

## P72 Perspectives| HIV/AIDS
> There is no patience to re-read this essay. 
