> July 4th's The Economist Note
## P10 Hong Kong, A safe harbor no more
- China has imposed a draconian security law on Hong Kong. It buries the idea of one country, two systems
  > The 18-page bill, which took effect that day, was harsher than the gloomiest analysts had predicted. It is one of the biggest assaults on a liberal society since the second world war.
- Lambasting its authoritarian politics or **quixotically** suggesting that Hong Kong should be independent would hardly casue the ground to shake in Beijing.
  > The party, however, takes a different view. The bill's definitions of sedition, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign powers could be applied even to petty, non-violent activity. The law also applies to activities abroad, by anyone.
- The party has shown that it would rather be feared than admired.

## P35 The rise of fan groups
- Celebrity fan groups boost their idols and insult rivals
  > *fanquan*, or "meal circles", are passionate and sometimes combative online groups devoted to particular celebrities.
- Member of fanquan are mainly women in their 20s. 
  > Some teenagers join the fun, too. A government report shows that 12.8m internet users under 18 frequently engaged in "fan-support" activities. These include posting praise, attacking critics and insulting devotees of other stars.
- Fandom entails spending. Meanwhile, Their ability of organizing brought occasinal benefit to the government during the pandemic.
- But the fanquan are not always biddable.
  > They scrapped the idea about the League had tried to encourage their members to praise animated idols named after Mao Zedong's writings. 

## P76 FedEx seeks deliverance
- FedEx tries to think beyond the pandemic.
  > FedEx, the American pioneer of express delivery reported that operating profits fell by 64%, year on year, in the three months to May. Demand from lock-down consumers has balloned, but so have coronavirus-related costs, from extra staff to deeper cleaning of facilities and vehicles.
- Most of its problems predate the crisis.
  > The main one has been indecision over whether to focus on bulk deliveries or the consumer market.
- The biggest of these--for FedEx and its industry rivals alike--looms in the shape of Amazon.
  > Amazon's gargantuan size and deep pockets means the gap may be bridged before long.

## P76 Parcel drones
- Automated deliveries get a fillip.
  > The popularity of contactless provision of food and medical supplies is boosting the drone-delivery business.
- Prediction: this would generate revenues of $2.2bn in 2022.
- Starups: TwinsHeel of France, Kiwibot of California, Starship Technologies of California, ZMP of Tokyo and JD Logistic of China.
- Although drone airmail remains **fledgling**, more regulators are getting on board.

## P83 Investment banking in China
- China may let banks launch **brokerages** to fend off foreign **marauders**.
  > China is poised to draft its biggest financial force into battle, by allowing giant state-owned commercial banks to enter investment banking.
- China has long had its own version of America's Glass-Steagall separations, which until 1999 barred retail banks from investment banking.
  > China's commercial banks can neither underwrite stocks nor offer brokerage services, which are left to securities firms--a division that offcials believe makes the financial system safer.
- The immediate prompt is foreign competition. And China has been eager to whip its brokers into shape.
- A common criticism of universal banking is that it combines two irreconcilable cultures, with the boldness of investment bankers potentially swamping the prudence of commercial bankers.
- In any case, it is hard to imagine China's lumbering banks becoming red-in-tooth-and-claw brokers.

## P83 Trade finance goes digital
- The world's most complicated paper chase is stumbling into the digital era.
  > Trade finance is an unglamorous but critical bit of the financial system. Many firms are owed a large amount by their customers in the form of receivalbes. Some firms bear all the risk of non-payment themselves. But others look to an insurer to protect them from default, or take out specialist loans backed by the invoices. Together these financing solutions underpin four-fifths of cross-border transactions, which are worth $15trn a year.
- Trade financiers face three problems created by the pandemic.
  > It has disrupted normal operations by slowing the travel of documents; it has raised the risk that exiting loans will sour; and it has made lenders more cautious about making new loans.
- The pandemic could lead to lasting gains by forcing the industry to digitise.

## P85 Buttonwood | Currency markets
- Why near-zero interest rates might lead to more volatile currency markets.
  > The Australian case is telling. Near-zero **interest rates** are the norm in rich countries. There is little scope for interest rates to adjust to economic trouble. So something else must. The **exchange rate** is the likeliest candidate.
- Trade and capital flows are mirror images. 
  > A key influence on currency volatility is the attractiveness, or otherwise, of a country's asset markets. 
- The lesson is that fixing policy rates does not mean that capital and trade flows are set in stone, too.
