> ABOUT JULY 11TH'S THE ECONOMIST
## P9 Sino-America tensions, Techtonic plates
- The tech cold war is hotting up
  > Judged by sales, porfits and shareholder returns, it has been a goldern era for American and Chinese tech. The industry now has **colossal** market capitalistaion of $20trn and accounts for a quarter of the world's stockmarket value.
> SMIC, 中芯国际是纯商业性集成电路代工厂，提供 0.35微米到14纳米制程工艺设计和制造服务。
- The split is happening at two velocities.
  > The American and Chinese software and internet universes are heading at light-speed towards total separation. *Two important exceptions have been Micosofts office software and, especially, Google's system of apps like Gmail and Maps, found on Chinese-made phones sold worldside.* Hardware is moving much more slowly. 
- The tech split is under way. Do not assume it will happen safely.


## P52 Chaguan | Study in America,losing allure, American soft power, trashed
> Yung Wing, 容闳，第一个毕业于美国耶鲁大学的中国留学生，是中国留学生事业的先驱，被誉为“中国留学生之父”。
- Millions of Chinese have studied in America over decades. That bond is in peril.
  > The first Chinese graduate from an American university, Yung Wing, **deemed** his college years the great adventure of his life. Yung would recognize the pressures his Chinese **heirs** face today. They are living through a moment when campuses, borders and minds on both sides of the Pacific are being closed by mutual suspicion and a pandemic.
- Students, who come from different class of China, descirbe the study in America in different way.
  > Many wealthy, well-connected Chinese call America a place to learn critical thinking, build social networks, and secure credentials that will help land them jobs and perhaps green cards. 
  > Australia is for those with bad exam results. In Canada, there are so many Chinese students that you don't even have a chance to speak English.
  > Another perspective comes from a larger group: middle-class students from provincial cities, heading to mid-ranked American colleges. Their focus is on which degree will boost their earning power when they return to China to compete with local graduates.
- America was being asked to help Chinese rise. Chinese rulers had to let youngsters taste new freedoms. Soon afterwards, leaders in both countries rejected that bargain. Over a century later, a folly repeated is still a mistake.


## P53 Race and liberal philosophy, In the balance
- Enlightenment liberalism is losing ground in the debate about how to deal with racism.
  > As the gains of the civil-rights era failed to translate into sustained progress for African-Americans, dissatifaction with liberalism set in.
- "Critical race theroy", which fused French post-modernism with the insights of African-Americans like Frederick Douglass and W.E.B. Du Bois, then emerged.
  > It first focused on the material conditions of black Americans and on developing tools to help them win a fair hearing in the courtroom. In the three decades since that paper was written, critical race theory has flourished.
  > Yet as it has grown, a focus on discourse and power has tended to supersede the practicalities. One thing that the popular synthesis preserves is its contempt for the liberal view of how to bring about social and moral.
- The heartbeat of racism is denial, the heartbeat of anti-racism is confession.


## P60 China's e-shopping frenzy
- Investors are **besotted** with digital China. Two booming internet firms show why
  > Alibaba and Tencent continue to lord it over digital China, whose total shareprices are $691bn and $669bn. And none has set investors' pulses racing of late more Meituan Dianping and Pinduoduo.
- They are now worth more than $100bn each. But their routes to these high look quite different.
  > Meituan was found in 2010 by Wang Xing, selling those discount vouchers. Then it has expanded into other areas. In 2013 it launched a meal-delivery business and a travel arm that lets users book hotels and flights. Two yearslater it merged with Dianping. In 2018 it paid $2.7bn for Mobike and entered ride-hailing. Today Meituan can be thought of as "**a search engine for services**". But these are low-margin, high-volume businesses. The success of Meituan is the amount of these.
  > Pinduoduo has taken the opposite tack to Meituan. Rather than spread its bets, it has double down on e-commerce. Central to the firm's ascent it the concept of social shopping--products are cheaper if you buy in bulk with fellow bargain-hunters.


## P61 Bartleby | Slackers and Stakhanovites
## P67 Buttonwood | Company defaults
## P68 Free exchange | Jerome Powell
> I suddenly deem these parts aren't so interesting.