> This is my note of *The Economist* which was published on July 25th.
> This note consists of two articles. And I just 'stole' them from *The Economist* to mark that I have done something useful this week.
#### Free money
- Governments can spend as they please. That presents opportunities--and grave dangers
  > Its overriding preoccupation will be exploiting the opportunities and containing the risks that stem from a supersized level of state intervention in the economy and finance markets.
- This new epoch has four defining features.
  > The first is the jaw-dropping sacle of government's borrowing, and the seemingly limitedless potential for yet more. The second feature is the whirring of the *printing press*. The state's growing role as capital-allactor-in-cheif is the third. The final feature is the most important: low inflation.
- Opportunties, which are created by a permanently broader and deeper reach across the economy of the state.
- Dangers: low inflation is just a temporary situation, even if inflation stays low, the new machinery is vulnerable to capture by lobbyists, unions and cronies.


#### Lexington | Trouble in Trumplandia
- The president's growing authoritarianism is a sign of weakness not strength.
  > **Because they, imagined frontiers, mark difference, they are also edgy places where changes can happen--like the spark that rebalances eletrical potential.**
- The wall, that the president promised to build along the southern border, marked who he and his voters were against: explicitly "rapist" migrants, but implicitly diversity.
- Now he has reconfigured his frontier more audaciously.
  > He has deployed immigration law enforces against racial protests in Portland, Oregon. It is the apogee of Mr. Trump's divisive method and one of his most reckless moves yet. 
  > That gambit failed for two reasons. The first is the wrong place. Wrong agency, the Department of Homeland Security, is the second one.
- It does not look like a tenable frontier.
  > He has set a minority of Americans against the majority.
